Supervisor API documentation refactor (#14579)
apache/druid: docs/api-reference/supervisor-api.md

  ~ under the License.
  -->

> This document describes the API endpoints to manage and monitor Supervisors for Apache Druid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes the API endpoints to manage and monitor supervisors for Apache Druid.
```
Let's keep the word "supervisor" lowercase for consistency.

> In this document, `http://<SERVICE_IP>:<SERVICE_PORT>` is a placeholder for the server address of deployment and the service port. For example, on the quickstart configuration, replace `http://<ROUTER_IP>:<ROUTER_PORT>` with `http://localhost:8888`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this document, `http://<ROUTER_IP>:<ROUTER_PORT>` is a placeholder for the server address of deployment and the service port. For example, on the quickstart configuration, replace `http://<ROUTER_IP>:<ROUTER_PORT>` with `http://localhost:8888`.
```
Does the first placeholder need to say "SERVICE"? Since you use "ROUTER" throughout the doc, I think it is best to keep it consistent.

## Supervisor information

### Get an array of active Supervisors

#### URL

<code className="getAPI">GET</code> `/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor`

> Retrieves an array of active Supervisors. Returns a response object that includes an array of strings representing the names of the active Supervisors. If there are no active Supervisors, it returns an empty array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieves an array of active supervisors. Returns a response object that includes an array of strings representing the names of the active supervisors. If there are no active supervisors, it returns an empty array.
```

Reviewer: Can a supervisor be inactive? If so, is it possible to retrieve an array of inactive supervisors? If the API returns only active supervisors, I think you can drop the word "active".

#### Responses

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--200 SUCCESS-->
<br/>

> *Successfully retrieved array of active Supervisor IDs* 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Successfully retrieved array of active supervisor IDs* 
```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

---

#### Sample request

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--cURL-->
```shell
curl "http://<ROUTER_IP>:<ROUTER_PORT>/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor"
```
<!--HTTP-->
```HTTP
GET /druid/indexer/v1/supervisor HTTP/1.1
Host: http://<ROUTER_IP>:<ROUTER_PORT>
```
<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

#### Sample response

<details>
  <summary>Click to show sample response</summary>
  
  ```json
  [
    "wikipedia_stream",
    "social_media"
  ]
  ```
</details>

### Get an array of active Supervisor objects

#### URL

<code className="getAPI">GET</code> `/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor?full`

> Retrieves an array of active Supervisor objects. Each object has properties relevant to the Supervisor: `id`, `state`, `detailedState`, `healthy`, and `spec`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieves an array of active supervisor objects. Each object has properties relevant to the Supervisor: `id`, `state`, `detailedState`, `healthy`, and `spec`. 
```
```suggestion
Retrieves an array of active supervisor objects.
```
I don't think you need to list the properties in this paragraph since you provide detailed information about the properties in the table that follows.
What happens if there are no active supervisors? Perhaps it is best to remove the word "active" completely? Same comment applies to `GET` `/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor`.

> See the following table for details on properties within the response object:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table lists the properties of a supervisor object:
```

> |Field|Type|Description|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Parameter|Type|Description|
```

|---|---|---|

> |`id`|String|Supervisor unique identifier|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`id`|String|The unique identifier.|
```

> |`state`|String|The basic state of the supervisor. Available states:`UNHEALTHY_SUPERVISOR`, `UNHEALTHY_TASKS`, `PENDING`, `RUNNING`, `SUSPENDED`, `STOPPING`. Check [Kafka Docs](../development/extensions-core/kafka-supervisor-operations.md) for details.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`state`|String|The basic state of the supervisor. Available states:`UNHEALTHY_SUPERVISOR`, `UNHEALTHY_TASKS`, `PENDING`, `RUNNING`, `SUSPENDED`, `STOPPING`. See [Apache Kafka operations](../development/extensions-core/kafka-supervisor-operations.md) for details.|
```

> |`detailedState`|String|The Supervisor specific state. See documentation of specific supervisor for details: [Kafka](../development/extensions-core/kafka-ingestion.md) or [Kinesis](../development/extensions-core/kinesis-ingestion.md)|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`detailedState`|String|The state of a supervisor. See [Apache Kafka ingestion](../development/extensions-core/kafka-ingestion.md) or [Amazon Kinesis ingestion](../development/extensions-core/kinesis-ingestion.md) for supervisor-specific states.|
```

> |`healthy`|Boolean|True or false indicator of overall Supervisor health|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`healthy`|Boolean|The supervisor health indicator.|
```

> |`spec`|SupervisorSpec|JSON specification of the Supervisor|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`spec`|Object|Container object for the supervisor configuration.|
```

#### Responses

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--200 SUCCESS-->
<br/>

> *Successfully retrieved active Supervisor objects* 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Successfully retrieved active supervisor objects* 
```

Reviewer: I think we can drop the word "active" here.

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

---

#### Sample request

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--cURL-->
```shell

> curl "http://<ROUTER_IP>:<ROUTER_PORT>/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor?full=null"

Reviewer: Why do you set `full` to `null` in this example?

```
<!--HTTP-->
```HTTP
GET /druid/indexer/v1/supervisor?full=null HTTP/1.1
Host: http://<ROUTER_IP>:<ROUTER_PORT>
```
<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

> #### Sample response

Reviewer: The supervisor objects in the response body contain the `suspended` property, which is not listed in the table. Instead of having two separate tables documenting the same fields, consider adding a paragraph listing out supervisor object properties following the Supervisor information heading. For example:

```
## Supervisor information
The following table lists the properties of the supervisor object:
(list all of the properties here)
```

                "inputFormat": {
                    "type": "json",
                    "keepNullColumns": false,
                    "assumeNewlineDelimited": false,
                    "useJsonNodeReader": false
                },
                "replicas": 1,
                "taskCount": 1,
                "taskDuration": "PT3600S",
                "consumerProperties": {
                    "bootstrap.servers": "localhost:9094"
                },
                "autoScalerConfig": null,
                "pollTimeout": 100,
                "startDelay": "PT5S",
                "period": "PT30S",
                "useEarliestOffset": true,
                "completionTimeout": "PT1800S",
                "lateMessageRejectionPeriod": null,
                "earlyMessageRejectionPeriod": null,
                "lateMessageRejectionStartDateTime": null,
                "configOverrides": null,
                "idleConfig": null,
                "stream": "social_media",
                "useEarliestSequenceNumber": true
            },
            "context": null,
            "suspended": false
        },
        "suspended": false
    }
  ]
  ```
</details>

> ### Get Supervisor state 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Get supervisor state 
```

<code className="getAPI">GET</code> `/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor?state=true`

Retrieves an array of objects of the currently active Supervisors and their current state. If there are no active Supervisors, it returns an empty array.

See the following table for details on properties within the response object:
|Field|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|`id`|String|Supervisor unique identifier|
|`state`|String|The basic state of the Supervisor. Available states: `UNHEALTHY_SUPERVISOR`, `UNHEALTHY_TASKS`, `PENDING`, `RUNNING`, `SUSPENDED`, `STOPPING`. Check [Kafka Docs](../development/extensions-core/kafka-supervisor-operations.md) for details.|
|`detailedState`|String|Supervisor specific state. See documentation of the specific Supervisor for details: [Kafka](../development/extensions-core/kafka-ingestion.md) or [Kinesis](../development/extensions-core/kinesis-ingestion.md)|

> |`healthy`|Boolean|True or false indicator of overall Supervisor health|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`healthy`|Boolean|Overall supervisor health indicator.|
```

> |`suspended`|Boolean|True or false indicator of whether the Supervisor is in suspended state|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`suspended`|Boolean|Indicates whether the supervisor is in suspended state.|
```

#### Responses

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--200 SUCCESS-->
<br/>

> *Successfully retrieved Supervisor state objects*  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Successfully retrieved supervisor state objects*  
```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

---

#### Sample request

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--cURL-->
```shell
curl "http://<ROUTER_IP>:<ROUTER_PORT>/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor?state=true"
```
<!--HTTP-->
```HTTP
GET /druid/indexer/v1/supervisor?state=true HTTP/1.1
Host: http://<ROUTER_IP>:<ROUTER_PORT>
```
<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

#### Sample response

<details>
  <summary>Click to show sample response</summary>
  
  ```json
  [
    {
        "id": "wikipedia_stream",
        "state": "UNHEALTHY_SUPERVISOR",
        "detailedState": "UNABLE_TO_CONNECT_TO_STREAM",
        "healthy": false,
        "suspended": false
    },
    {
        "id": "social_media",
        "state": "RUNNING",
        "detailedState": "RUNNING",
        "healthy": true,
        "suspended": false
    }
  ]
  ```

</details>

> ### Get Supervisor specification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Get supervisor specification
```

#### URL

<code className="getAPI">GET</code> `/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor/{supervisorId}`

> Retrieves the current spec for the Supervisor with the provided ID. The returned supervisor spec specifies the `dataSchema`, `ioConfig`, and `tuningConfig`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieves the specification for a single supervisor. The returned specification includes the `dataSchema`, `ioConfig`, and `tuningConfig` objects.
```

#### Responses

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--200 SUCCESS-->
<br/>
*Successfully retrieved supervisor spec* 
<!--404 NOT FOUND-->
<br/>

> *Invalid Supervisor ID* 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Invalid supervisor ID* 
```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

---

#### Sample request

> The following example shows how to retrieve the specification of the `wikipedia_stream` Supervisor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to retrieve the specification of the `wikipedia_stream` supervisor.
```

        "logParseExceptions": false,
        "maxParseExceptions": 2147483647,
        "maxSavedParseExceptions": 0,
        "skipSequenceNumberAvailabilityCheck": false,
        "repartitionTransitionDuration": "PT120S"
    },
    "ioConfig": {
        "topic": "social_media",
        "inputFormat": {
            "type": "json",
            "keepNullColumns": false,
            "assumeNewlineDelimited": false,
            "useJsonNodeReader": false
        },
        "replicas": 1,
        "taskCount": 1,
        "taskDuration": "PT3600S",
        "consumerProperties": {
            "bootstrap.servers": "localhost:9094"
        },
        "autoScalerConfig": null,
        "pollTimeout": 100,
        "startDelay": "PT5S",
        "period": "PT30S",
        "useEarliestOffset": true,
        "completionTimeout": "PT1800S",
        "lateMessageRejectionPeriod": null,
        "earlyMessageRejectionPeriod": null,
        "lateMessageRejectionStartDateTime": null,
        "configOverrides": null,
        "idleConfig": null,
        "stream": "social_media",
        "useEarliestSequenceNumber": true
    },
    "context": null,
    "suspended": false
}
  ```
</details>

> ### Get Supervisor status

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Get supervisor status
```

#### URL
<code className="getAPI">GET</code> `/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor/{supervisorId}/status`

> Retrieves a current status report of the Supervisor with the provided ID. The report contains the state of the tasks managed by the Supervisor and an array of recently thrown exceptions. The possible `state` values are: [`PENDING`, `RUNNING`, `SUSPENDED`, `STOPPING`, `UNHEALTHY_SUPERVISOR`, `UNHEALTHY_TASKS`].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieves the current status report for a single supervisor. The report contains the state of the supervisor tasks and an array of recently thrown exceptions.
```
You don't need to mention the possible state values here since you already provide that information in the properties table.

 For additional information about the status report, see the documentation for each streaming ingestion methods:
* [Amazon Kinesis](../development/extensions-core/kinesis-ingestion.md#getting-supervisor-status-report)
* [Apache Kafka](../development/extensions-core/kafka-supervisor-operations.md#getting-supervisor-status-report)

#### Responses

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--200 SUCCESS-->
<br/>

> *Successfully retrieved Supervisor status* 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Successfully retrieved supervisor status* 
```

<!--404 NOT FOUND-->
<br/>

> *Invalid Supervisor ID* 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Invalid supervisor ID* 
```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

---

#### Sample request

> The following example shows retrieving the status of the `social_media` Supervisor. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to retrieve the status of the `social_media` supervisor. 
```

          "replicas": 1,
          "durationSeconds": 3600,
          "activeTasks": [
              {
                  "id": "index_kafka_social_media_ab72ae4127c591c_flcbhdlh",
                  "startingOffsets": {
                      "0": 3176381
                  },
                  "startTime": "2023-07-05T23:21:39.321Z",
                  "remainingSeconds": 3415,
                  "type": "ACTIVE",
                  "currentOffsets": {
                      "0": 3296632
                  },
                  "lag": {
                      "0": 3
                  }
              }
          ],
          "publishingTasks": [],
          "latestOffsets": {
              "0": 3296635
          },
          "minimumLag": {
              "0": 3
          },
          "aggregateLag": 3,
          "offsetsLastUpdated": "2023-07-05T23:24:30.212Z",
          "suspended": false,
          "healthy": true,
          "state": "RUNNING",
          "detailedState": "RUNNING",
          "recentErrors": []
      }
  }
  ```
</details>

## Audit history

### Get audit history for all Supervisors

#### URL

<code className="getAPI">GET</code> `/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor/history`

> Retrieve an audit history of specs for all Supervisors (current and past).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieves an audit history of specs for all supervisors (current and past).
```
What is a past supervisor? Is it a supervisor that has been suspended?

> An audit history of a Supervisor provides a comprehensive log of events, including its configuration, creation, suspension, and modification history.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An audit history provides a comprehensive log of supervisor events, including configuration, creation, suspension, and modification history.
```

                        "assumeNewlineDelimited": false,
                        "useJsonNodeReader": false
                    },
                    "replicas": 1,
                    "taskCount": 1,
                    "taskDuration": "PT3600S",
                    "consumerProperties": {
                        "bootstrap.servers": "localhost:9094"
                    },
                    "autoScalerConfig": null,
                    "pollTimeout": 100,
                    "startDelay": "PT5S",
                    "period": "PT30S",
                    "useEarliestOffset": true,
                    "completionTimeout": "PT1800S",
                    "lateMessageRejectionPeriod": null,
                    "earlyMessageRejectionPeriod": null,
                    "lateMessageRejectionStartDateTime": null,
                    "configOverrides": null,
                    "idleConfig": null,
                    "stream": "social_media",
                    "useEarliestSequenceNumber": true
                },
                "context": null,
                "suspended": false
            },
            "version": "2023-07-03T18:51:02.970Z"
        }
    ]
}
  ```
</details>

> ### Get audit history for specific Supervisor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Get audit history for specific supervisor
```

#### URL

<code className="getAPI">GET</code> `/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor/{supervisorId}/history`

> Retrieve an audit history of specs for the Supervisor with the provided ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieves an audit history of specs for a single supervisor.
```

> An audit history of a Supervisor provides a comprehensive log of events, including its configuration, creation, suspension, and modification history. 

Reviewer: Since line 1628 is a repeat of line 1274, you can omit it.

#### Responses

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--200 SUCCESS-->
<br/>

> *Successfully retrieved audit history for Supervisor* 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Successfully retrieved supervisor audit history* 
```

<!--404 NOT FOUND-->
<br/>
*Invalid supervisor ID* 
<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

---

#### Sample request

> The following example shows how to retrieve the audit history of the `wikipedia_stream` Supervisor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to retrieve the audit history of a supervisor with the specified ID `wikipedia_stream`.
```

                "inputFormat": {
                    "type": "json",
                    "keepNullColumns": false,
                    "assumeNewlineDelimited": false,
                    "useJsonNodeReader": false
                },
                "replicas": 1,
                "taskCount": 1,
                "taskDuration": "PT3600S",
                "consumerProperties": {
                    "bootstrap.servers": "localhost:9042"
                },
                "autoScalerConfig": null,
                "pollTimeout": 100,
                "startDelay": "PT5S",
                "period": "PT30S",
                "useEarliestOffset": true,
                "completionTimeout": "PT1800S",
                "lateMessageRejectionPeriod": null,
                "earlyMessageRejectionPeriod": null,
                "lateMessageRejectionStartDateTime": null,
                "configOverrides": null,
                "idleConfig": null,
                "stream": "social_media",
                "useEarliestSequenceNumber": true
            },
            "context": null,
            "suspended": false
        },
        "version": "2023-07-05T20:59:16.872Z"
    }
]
  ```
</details>

> ## Managing Supervisors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Manage supervisors
```

> ### Create a new Supervisor or update an existing Supervisor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create or update a supervisor
```

#### URL

<code className="postAPI">POST</code> `/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor`

> Creates a new Supervisor or updates an existing one for the same datasource with a new schema and configuration. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creates a new supervisor or updates an existing one for the same datasource with a new schema and configuration. 
```

> You can create a supervisor spec using [Apache Kafka](../development/extensions-core/kafka-ingestion.md#define-a-supervisor-spec) or [Amazon Kinesis](../development/extensions-core/kinesis-ingestion.md#submitting-a-supervisor-spec). Once created, a Supervisor will persist in the metadata database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define a supervisor spec for [Apache Kafka](../development/extensions-core/kafka-ingestion.md#define-a-supervisor-spec) or [Amazon Kinesis](../development/extensions-core/kinesis-ingestion.md#submitting-a-supervisor-spec) streaming ingestion methods. Once created, the supervisor persists in the metadata database.
```

> Using this endpoint on an existing Supervisor for the same datasource will result in the running Supervisor signaling its tasks to stop reading and begin publishing, exiting itself, and a new Supervisor being created with the provided configuration from the request body. This submits a new schema while retaining existing publishing tasks and starting new tasks at the previous task offsets. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you call this endpoint on an existing supervisor for the same datasource, the running supervisor signals its tasks to stop reading and begin publishing, exiting itself. Druid then uses the provided configuration from the request body to create a new supervisor. Druid submits a new schema while retaining existing publishing tasks and starts new tasks at the previous task offsets. 
```
Changed to active voice and removed future tense.

#### Responses

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--200 SUCCESS-->
<br/>

> *Successfully created a new Supervisor or updated an existing Supervisor* 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Successfully created a new supervisor or updated an existing supervisor* 
```

<!--415 UNSUPPORTED MEDIA TYPE-->
<br/>
*Request body content type is not in JSON format* 

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

---

#### Sample request

The following example uses JSON input format to create a supervisor spec for Kafka with a `social_media` datasource and `social_media` topic. 

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--cURL-->
```shell
curl "http://<ROUTER_IP>:<ROUTER_PORT>/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor" \
--header "Content-Type: application/json" \
--data "{

>     \"type\": \"kafka\",

Reviewer: Can you update this example so that it doesn't escape JSON characters? This makes it hard to read. (unless escaping is required)

        },
        "tuningConfig": {
            "type": "kafka"
        },
        "dataSchema": {
            "dataSource": "social_media",
            "timestampSpec": {
                "column": "__time",
                "format": "iso"
            },
            "dimensionsSpec": {
                "dimensions": [
                    "username",
                    "post_title",
                    {
                        "type": "long",
                        "name": "views"
                    },
                    {
                        "type": "long",
                        "name": "upvotes"
                    },
                    {
                        "type": "long",
                        "name": "comments"
                    },
                    "edited"
                ]
            },
            "granularitySpec": {
                "queryGranularity": "none",
                "rollup": false,
                "segmentGranularity": "hour"
            }
        }
    }
}
```
<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

#### Sample response

<details>
  <summary>Click to show sample response</summary>

  ```json
{
    "id": "social_media"
}
  ```
</details>

> ### Suspend a running Supervisor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Suspend a running supervisor
```

#### URL
<code className="postAPI">POST</code> `/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor/{supervisorId}/suspend`

> Suspends the current running Supervisor of the provided ID. Returns the updated supervisor spec where the `suspended` property is set to `true`. A suspended Supervisor will continue to emit logs and metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suspends a single running supervisor. Returns the updated supervisor spec, where the `suspended` property is set to `true`. The suspended supervisor continues to emit logs and metrics.
```

#### Responses

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--200 SUCCESS-->
<br/>

> *Successfully shut down Supervisor* 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Successfully shut down supervisor* 
```

<!--400 BAD REQUEST-->
<br/>
*Supervisor already suspended* 
<!--404 NOT FOUND-->
<br/>

> *Invalid Supervisor ID* 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Invalid supervisor ID* 
```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

---

#### Sample request

> The following example shows how to suspend a running Supervisor with task ID `social_media`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to suspend a running supervisor with the specified ID `social_media`.
```

        "logParseExceptions": false,
        "maxParseExceptions": 2147483647,
        "maxSavedParseExceptions": 0,
        "skipSequenceNumberAvailabilityCheck": false,
        "repartitionTransitionDuration": "PT120S"
    },
    "ioConfig": {
        "topic": "social_media",
        "inputFormat": {
            "type": "json",
            "keepNullColumns": false,
            "assumeNewlineDelimited": false,
            "useJsonNodeReader": false
        },
        "replicas": 1,
        "taskCount": 1,
        "taskDuration": "PT3600S",
        "consumerProperties": {
            "bootstrap.servers": "localhost:9094"
        },
        "autoScalerConfig": null,
        "pollTimeout": 100,
        "startDelay": "PT5S",
        "period": "PT30S",
        "useEarliestOffset": true,
        "completionTimeout": "PT1800S",
        "lateMessageRejectionPeriod": null,
        "earlyMessageRejectionPeriod": null,
        "lateMessageRejectionStartDateTime": null,
        "configOverrides": null,
        "idleConfig": null,
        "stream": "social_media",
        "useEarliestSequenceNumber": true
    },
    "context": null,
    "suspended": true
}
  ```
</details>

> ### Suspend all Supervisors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Suspend all supervisors
```

#### URL
<code className="postAPI">POST</code> `/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor/suspendAll`

> Suspends all Supervisors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suspends all supervisors.
```

> Note that this endpoint will return a "success" message even if there are no Supervisors or running Supervisors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that this endpoint returns an HTTP `200 Success` code even if there are no running supervisors.
```

#### Responses

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--200 SUCCESS-->
<br/>

> *Successfully suspended all Supervisors* 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Successfully suspended all supervisors* 
```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

---
#### Sample request

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--cURL-->
```shell
curl --request POST "http://<ROUTER_IP>:<ROUTER_PORT>/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor/suspendAll"
```
<!--HTTP-->
```HTTP
POST /druid/indexer/v1/supervisor/suspendAll HTTP/1.1
Host: http://<ROUTER_IP>:<ROUTER_PORT>
```
<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

#### Sample response

<details>
  <summary>Click to show sample response</summary>

  ```json
{
    "status": "success"
}
  ```
</details>

> ### Resume a Supervisor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Resume a supervisor
```

#### URL

<code className="postAPI">POST</code> `/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor/{supervisorId}/resume`

Resumes indexing tasks for a Supervisor. Returns an updated supervisor spec with the `suspended` property set to `false`.

#### Responses

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--200 SUCCESS-->
<br/>

> *Successfully resumed Supervisor* 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Successfully resumed supervisor* 
```

<!--400 BAD REQUEST-->
<br/>
*Supervisor already running* 
<!--404 NOT FOUND-->
<br/>

> *Invalid Supervisor ID* 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Invalid supervisor ID* 
```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

---

#### Sample request

> The following example resumes a previously suspended Supervisor with ID `social_media`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example resumes a previously suspended supervisor with the specified ID `social_media`.
```

        "logParseExceptions": false,
        "maxParseExceptions": 2147483647,
        "maxSavedParseExceptions": 0,
        "skipSequenceNumberAvailabilityCheck": false,
        "repartitionTransitionDuration": "PT120S"
    },
    "ioConfig": {
        "topic": "social_media",
        "inputFormat": {
            "type": "json",
            "keepNullColumns": false,
            "assumeNewlineDelimited": false,
            "useJsonNodeReader": false
        },
        "replicas": 1,
        "taskCount": 1,
        "taskDuration": "PT3600S",
        "consumerProperties": {
            "bootstrap.servers": "localhost:9094"
        },
        "autoScalerConfig": null,
        "pollTimeout": 100,
        "startDelay": "PT5S",
        "period": "PT30S",
        "useEarliestOffset": true,
        "completionTimeout": "PT1800S",
        "lateMessageRejectionPeriod": null,
        "earlyMessageRejectionPeriod": null,
        "lateMessageRejectionStartDateTime": null,
        "configOverrides": null,
        "idleConfig": null,
        "stream": "social_media",
        "useEarliestSequenceNumber": true
    },
    "context": null,
    "suspended": false
}
  ```
</details>

> ### Resume all Supervisors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Resume all supervisors
```

#### URL
<code className="postAPI">POST</code> `/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor/resumeAll`

> Resumes all Supervisors. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resumes all supervisors. 
```

> Note that this endpoint will return a "success" message even if there are no Supervisors or suspended Supervisors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that this endpoint returns an HTTP `200 Success` code even if there are no suspended supervisors.
```

#### Responses

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--200 SUCCESS-->
<br/>

> *Successfully resumed all Supervisors* 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Successfully resumed all supervisors* 
```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

---

#### Sample request

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--cURL-->
```shell
curl --request POST "http://<ROUTER_IP>:<ROUTER_PORT>/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor/resumeAll"
```
<!--HTTP-->
```HTTP
POST /druid/indexer/v1/supervisor/resumeAll HTTP/1.1
Host: http://<ROUTER_IP>:<ROUTER_PORT>
```
<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

#### Sample response

<details>
  <summary>Click to show sample response</summary>

  ```json
{
    "status": "success"
}
  ```
</details>

### Reset a Supervisor

#### URL
<code className="postAPI">POST</code> `/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor/{supervisorId}/reset`

> Resets the specified supervisor. This endpoint clears stored offsets, causing the Supervisor to start reading offsets from either the earliest or the latest offsets in Kafka. It kills and recreates active tasks to read from valid offsets. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resets the specified supervisor. This endpoint clears stored offsets, prompting the supervisor to start reading offsets from either the earliest or the latest offsets in Kafka. It kills and recreates active tasks to read from valid offsets. 
```
Is this Kafka-specific or can it be used for other streaming ingestion methods?

> Use this endpoint for recovering when the Supervisor stops due to missing offsets. Use this endpoint with caution as it may result in skipped, resulting in data loss, or duplicate data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this endpoint to recover when the supervisor stops due to missing offsets. Use this endpoint with caution as it may result in skipped, resulting in data loss, or duplicate data. 
```
These sentences seem to be incomplete. What do you recover? A task? It may result in skipped what? Skipped tasks? Can you please clarify?

#### Responses

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--200 SUCCESS-->
<br/>

> *Successfully reset Supervisor* 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Successfully reset supervisor* 
```

<!--404 NOT FOUND-->
<br/>

> *Invalid Supervisor ID* 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Invalid supervisor ID* 
```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

---

#### Sample request

> The following example resets the `social_media` Supervisor. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to reset a supervisor with the specified ID `social_media`. 
```

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--cURL-->
```shell
curl --request POST "http://<ROUTER_IP>:<ROUTER_PORT>/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor/social_media/reset"
```
<!--HTTP-->
```HTTP
POST /druid/indexer/v1/supervisor/social_media/reset HTTP/1.1
Host: http://<ROUTER_IP>:<ROUTER_PORT>
```
<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

#### Sample response

<details>
  <summary>Click to show sample response</summary>

  ```json
{
    "id": "social_media"
}
  ```
</details>

> ### Terminate a Supervisor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Terminate a supervisor
```

#### URL 
<code className="postAPI">POST</code> `/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor/{supervisorId}/terminate`

> Terminate a Supervisor of the provided ID and its associated indexing tasks, triggering the publishing of their segments. When terminated, a tombstone marker will be placed in the database to prevent reloading on restart. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Terminates a supervisor and its associated indexing tasks, triggering the publishing of their segments. When terminated, a tombstone marker is placed in the database to prevent reloading on restart. 
```

> The terminated Supervisor will still exist in the metadata store and its history can be retrieved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The terminated supervisor still exists in the metadata store and its history can be retrieved.
```

#### Responses

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--200 SUCCESS-->
<br/>

> *Successfully terminated a Supervisor* 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Successfully terminated a supervisor* 
```

<!--404 NOT FOUND-->
<br/>

> *Invalid Supervisor ID or Supervisor not running* 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Invalid Supervisor ID or supervisor not running* 
```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

---

#### Sample request

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--cURL-->
```shell
curl --request POST "http://<ROUTER_IP>:<ROUTER_PORT>/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor/social_media/terminate"
```
<!--HTTP-->
```HTTP
POST /druid/indexer/v1/supervisor/social_media/terminate HTTP/1.1
Host: http://<ROUTER_IP>:<ROUTER_PORT>
```
<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

#### Sample response

<details>
  <summary>Click to show sample response</summary>

  ```json
{
    "id": "social_media"
}
  ```
</details>

> ### Terminate all Supervisors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Terminate all supervisors
```

#### URL

<code className="postAPI">POST</code> `/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor/terminateAll`

> Terminate all Supervisors. Terminated Supervisors will still exist in the metadata store and their history can be retrieved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Terminates all supervisors. Terminated supervisors still exist in the metadata store and their history can be retrieved.
```

> Note that this endpoint will return a "success" message even if there are no Supervisors or running Supervisors to terminate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that this endpoint returns an HTTP `200 Success` code even if there are no running supervisors to terminate.
```

#### Responses

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--200 SUCCESS-->
<br/>

> *Successfully terminated all Supervisors* 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Successfully terminated all supervisors* 
```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

---

#### Sample request

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--cURL-->
```shell
curl --request POST "http://<ROUTER_IP>:<ROUTER_PORT>/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor/terminateAll"
```
<!--HTTP-->
```HTTP
POST /druid/indexer/v1/supervisor/terminateAll HTTP/1.1
Host: http://<ROUTER_IP>:<ROUTER_PORT>
```
<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

#### Sample response

<details>
  <summary>Click to show sample response</summary>

  ```json
{
    "status": "success"
}
  ```
</details>

> ### Shut down a Supervisor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Shut down a supervisor
```

#### URL

<code className="postAPI">POST</code> `/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor/{supervisorId}/shutdown`

> Shuts down a supervisor. This API is depreciated and will be removed in future releases. Use the equivalent [terminate](#terminate-a-supervisor) endpoint instead. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shuts down a supervisor. This endpoint is depreciated and will be removed in future releases. Use the equivalent [terminate](#terminate-a-supervisor) endpoint instead. 
```

|`healthy`|Boolean|Supervisor health indicator.|
|`spec`|Object|Container object for the supervisor configuration.|
|`suspended`|Boolean|Indicates whether the supervisor is in a suspended state.|

### Get an array of active supervisor IDs

Returns an array of strings representing the names of active supervisors. If there are no active supervisors, it returns an empty array.

#### URL

<code class="getAPI">GET</code> <code>/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor</code>

#### Responses

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--200 SUCCESS-->

<br/>

*Successfully retrieved array of active supervisor IDs* 

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

---

#### Sample request

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--cURL-->

```shell
curl "http://ROUTER_IP:ROUTER_PORT/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor"
```

<!--HTTP-->

```HTTP
GET /druid/indexer/v1/supervisor HTTP/1.1
Host: http://ROUTER_IP:ROUTER_PORT
```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

#### Sample response

<details>
  <summary>Click to show sample response</summary>
  
  ```json
  [
    "wikipedia_stream",
    "social_media"
  ]
  ```
</details>

### Get an array of active supervisor objects

> Retrieves an array of active supervisor objects. If there are no active supervisors, it returns an empty array. For reference on the supervisor object properties, see the following [table](#supervisor-information).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieves an array of active supervisor objects. If there are no active supervisors, it returns an empty array. For reference on the supervisor object properties, see the preceding [table](#supervisor-information).
```

                    "type": "json",
                    "keepNullColumns": false,
                    "assumeNewlineDelimited": false,
                    "useJsonNodeReader": false
                },
                "replicas": 1,
                "taskCount": 1,
                "taskDuration": "PT3600S",
                "consumerProperties": {
                    "bootstrap.servers": "localhost:9094"
                },
                "autoScalerConfig": null,
                "pollTimeout": 100,
                "startDelay": "PT5S",
                "period": "PT30S",
                "useEarliestOffset": true,
                "completionTimeout": "PT1800S",
                "lateMessageRejectionPeriod": null,
                "earlyMessageRejectionPeriod": null,
                "lateMessageRejectionStartDateTime": null,
                "configOverrides": null,
                "idleConfig": null,
                "stream": "social_media",
                "useEarliestSequenceNumber": true
            },
            "context": null,
            "suspended": false
        },
        "suspended": false
    }
  ]
  ```
</details>

### Get an array of supervisor states

> Retrieves an array of objects with the currently active supervisors and their current state. If there are no active supervisors, it returns an empty array. For reference on the supervisor object properties, see the following [table](#supervisor-information).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieves an array of objects representing active supervisors and their current state. If there are no active supervisors, it returns an empty array. For reference on the supervisor object properties, see the preceding [table](#supervisor-information).
```

#### URL

<code class="getAPI">GET</code> <code>/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor?state=true</code>

#### Responses

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--200 SUCCESS-->

<br/>

> *Successfully retrieved supervisor state objects.*  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Successfully retrieved supervisor state objects*  
```

                        "assumeNewlineDelimited": false,
                        "useJsonNodeReader": false
                    },
                    "replicas": 1,
                    "taskCount": 1,
                    "taskDuration": "PT3600S",
                    "consumerProperties": {
                        "bootstrap.servers": "localhost:9094"
                    },
                    "autoScalerConfig": null,
                    "pollTimeout": 100,
                    "startDelay": "PT5S",
                    "period": "PT30S",
                    "useEarliestOffset": true,
                    "completionTimeout": "PT1800S",
                    "lateMessageRejectionPeriod": null,
                    "earlyMessageRejectionPeriod": null,
                    "lateMessageRejectionStartDateTime": null,
                    "configOverrides": null,
                    "idleConfig": null,
                    "stream": "social_media",
                    "useEarliestSequenceNumber": true
                },
                "context": null,
                "suspended": false
            },
            "version": "2023-07-03T18:51:02.970Z"
        }
    ]
}
  ```
</details>

> ### Get audit history for specific supervisor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Get audit history for a specific supervisor
```

                "inputFormat": {
                    "type": "json",
                    "keepNullColumns": false,
                    "assumeNewlineDelimited": false,
                    "useJsonNodeReader": false
                },
                "replicas": 1,
                "taskCount": 1,
                "taskDuration": "PT3600S",
                "consumerProperties": {
                    "bootstrap.servers": "localhost:9042"
                },
                "autoScalerConfig": null,
                "pollTimeout": 100,
                "startDelay": "PT5S",
                "period": "PT30S",
                "useEarliestOffset": true,
                "completionTimeout": "PT1800S",
                "lateMessageRejectionPeriod": null,
                "earlyMessageRejectionPeriod": null,
                "lateMessageRejectionStartDateTime": null,
                "configOverrides": null,
                "idleConfig": null,
                "stream": "social_media",
                "useEarliestSequenceNumber": true
            },
            "context": null,
            "suspended": false
        },
        "version": "2023-07-05T20:59:16.872Z"
    }
]
  ```
</details>

> ## Managing supervisors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Manage supervisors
```

#### URL

<code class="postAPI">POST</code> <code>/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor/resumeAll</code>

#### Responses

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--200 SUCCESS-->

<br/>

*Successfully resumed all supervisors* 

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

---

#### Sample request

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--cURL-->

```shell
curl --request POST "http://ROUTER_IP:ROUTER_PORT/druid/indexer/v1/supervisor/resumeAll"
```

<!--HTTP-->

```HTTP
POST /druid/indexer/v1/supervisor/resumeAll HTTP/1.1
Host: http://ROUTER_IP:ROUTER_PORT
```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

#### Sample response

<details>
  <summary>Click to show sample response</summary>

  ```json
{
    "status": "success"
}
  ```
</details>

### Reset a supervisor

Resets the specified supervisor. This endpoint clears stored offsets in Kafka or sequence numbers in Kinesis, prompting the supervisor to resume data reading. The supervisor will start from the earliest or latest available position, depending on the platform (offsets in Kafka or sequence numbers in Kinesis). It kills and recreates active tasks to read from valid positions.

> Use this endpoint to recover from a stopped state due to missing offsets in Kafka or sequence numbers in Kinesis. Use this endpoint with caution as it may result in skipped messages, resulting in data loss, or duplicate data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this endpoint to recover from a stopped state due to missing offsets in Kafka or sequence numbers in Kinesis. Use this endpoint with caution as it may result in skipped messages and lead to data loss or duplicate data. 
```
